---
title: "Results"
bg: orange
color: black
fa-icon: asterisk
---

#Results

The first way The Greater Chicago Food Depository is part of the global society is the many connections it has to keep the organization thriving. The GCFD works with 350 local and national food companies, grocers, foodservice organizations, produce markets, and growers. Having this many sources connects so many people to the food depository making more people aware of the issue. Since national food companies are involved organizations around the country or world can be inspired by the GCFD to start something like this in their own city.

Another way The Greater Chicago Food Depository is part of the global society is that is brings a lot of people together to help the organization out by donating their time and effort into many aspects. Volunteers are needed to help repack food, load and unload trucks, and delivery and pickup produce which were some of the activities I was involved in. In my time volunteering I met a wide variety of people. Both younger and older, of all races and ethnicities, and of all religions. In today’s society we face a lot of racism and argue over religion and whatnot, but what I saw here was those differences were put aside because there were more important things to worry about. Being able to volunteer for an organization like this really helps bring people to together and give back to their community by helping out others that live there too.

Most importantly The Greater Chicago Food Depository helps the food insecure people of Chicago. At first I thought that most people receiving food from the GCFD were homeless, but more people are food insecure than you would think. Someone can have a place to sleep and a job and still be food insecure. A lot of times people have to choose between paying for food and paying medical bills, rent, utility bills, or for education. Even if there is some money left over when all the bills are paid for, it isn’t enough to get quality food and in some areas that isn’t even an option. For my negative social determinant of health I addressed the issue of food deserts which is simply an area that does not have access to a variety of fresh produce. A lot of times people in these areas stoop to getting their food from convenience stores or gas stations which only have overly processed foods to offer. This poses many health issues for the people under these circumstances. When I volunteered at the food depository they explained that they pack food and literally drive to these areas and hand out meals where hundreds line up. If that isn’t address the problem directly I don’t know what is!
All of these are great examples of how The Greater Chicago Food Depository connects not only our city, but nation and even sets a great example for the rest of the world through social, economic, and political processes.

**The Greater Chicago Food Depository is doing a great job already sending out enough food to be equivalent to 154,000 meals a day, although I would like to see it grow. If we used the same strategy and ideology that they do at the GCFD in other countries then anything could be possible. It would be much more difficult since low income countries do not have as many food service companies as we do here to donate, but big companies are always looking to help donate and make things like this possible. This would help The Greater Chicago Food Depository become more globally connected. World hunger is a very huge and important task to overcome and the GCFD is doing a great job, along many other organizations, to solve the problem here in America.**
