---
title: "Methods"
bg: '#63BD2F'
color: white
fa-icon: asterisk
---

#Methods

The first volunteer session I participated in was what they call a food repack. A lot of the food donated to the food depository comes in bulk quantities from grocers for example. During my session we received huge crates of mini carrots that were bagged, but were required to be repacked into boxes all relatively the same weight. They repack like this so that they are able to send out their fresh produce to soup kitchens, shelters, and other locations. Fresh produce obviously doesn't have a long shelf life so they can only send out so many pounds to ensure that the locations are able to utilize the produce while it is still fresh. We also boxed loose corn to be distributed. I could not remember the exact goal we were trying to reach, but we went well over it making it a very successful day.

The second volunteer session took place at Union Station where we were required to hand out brown paper bags to the public to promote their city wide food drive that takes place throughout November and December. As we handed out the brown bags we asked the people to kindly fill them with nonperishable items and return them to the many drop off locations.

The Greater Chicago Food Depository is also involved in a number of special events [(link to events page)](http://www.chicagosfoodbank.org/site/PageServer?pagename=lb_help_special_events) that you can attend and even volunteer at. Their involvement throughout the city is what makes the Greater Chicago Food Depository name so well known and helps the organization continue to grow to reach their goal.
